#video 1

software development life cycle.
    plan,implement,test,deploy,maintain.  in loop

Programming=> done by developers. using various languagues,they wonk in teams. And team size and jobs
vary. and they fix bugs.

Test=> to make sure changes don't break the whole thing,
        developers test the code and dedicated testers also do the same.
        it can be automated testing.

 and now it is released.
   to do so build/package it and run it on servers,or updgrade existing software.
this is where operations(IT operations) team comes in,operations run the software in production.
like integrating the new features without downtime.they also make sure servers don't fail or if
fail are resilient to such failure,and the architecture should handle large traffic.And they have 
to make the software perform efficient

Programmers and Operations are supposed to have different skills.
operations usually needs OS,mostly linux,command-line,scripting efficient,monitoring tools.
the knowledge needed is different.

Development and Operations teams need to communicate effectively,as the roles are different 
it is hard to communicate properly eg works on my machine,not in server,or dependecies,env variables
folders needed,databases needed etc . Operations teams have to prepare the enviroment for the
deployment, this communication is usually not effective and doesn't work,something is always missing.


How to solve it?
    DevOps culture,way of working between Dev's and OP'same
    common language to communicate
    now it is own role and job.
    many new concepts and tools.
    DevOps engineer.

DevOPs tasks and responsibitiies:
    need some know-how from DEV and OPs team.
    they have subset of skills from both sides,hence can talk to both sides.
    additional DevOps specific skills and know-how.
    eg build continuous pipeline for Test,Build,Push,deploy using
    technology like Docker,Kubernetes.

Waterfall vs Agile.
    influence speed and process of software development
Waterfall:
    Requirements => once all done then go to
    Development  => once whole done then
    Testing      => once whole done then
    Operations   => now deployed
waterfall doesn't work realy good with changing requirements.

Agile:
    speed of development,testing and deployment cycles is benefit
    each feature gets tested,deployed.
    immediate feeback.
    fast development adn deployment process.
    scrum and kanban are two implementations of Agile.As Agile is just a guidelines
Agile is at the heart of continuous integrations and pipeline.

Agile is to business and Devlopment what Devops is to Development and Opeartions.
Agile is an interface between business people and Developers.


#TODO 4 

